I'm Bill Bumgarner.
I manage core data for Tiger,
and I'm doing some Xcode stuff now,
and I've always had a love
with WebObjects and have
been using it forever.
And of course, as you know,
WebObjects is the world's best
rapid application development
tool for app servers.
And with that is the paradigm
of just-in-time engineering.
So in the interest of that,
we're making sure that two of
the other presenters are late.
Ravi's here.
Max will be here soon.
So let's get going.
We'll fill in the blanks.
I'm Bill Bumgarner.
I will be joined by
Max Muller and Ravi Mendis.
Ravi wrote a wonderful WebObjects book.
And both Ravi and Max work
on the Music Store.
Let's, as we dive into this,
we really wanted to do something
completely new this year.
And the first thing we wanted
to do was take a step back and
really look at the landscape.
What's your target market for
deploying WebObjects applications
and application servers in general?
And in the 10, 12, 13,
some odd years that we've
been doing this stuff now,
there's been a few things that
really have changed quite a bit.
And there's some surprising
things that have stayed the same.
In particular,
we have oodles of bandwidth now.
And sadly enough,
the United States has less
bandwidth than most of the rest
of the countries in the world.
But, you know,
that changes the picture a bit.
We need to also look at the current
state of the art of HTML-based user
interfaces and the growing market of
alternative interface technologies.
And finally,
we really need to look at how has this
changed optimization of WebObjects
applications and more importantly,
WebObjects solutions.
Because rarely is it just about
one or two applications now.
So, bandwidth.
Yes, there's just tons of bandwidth out
there and it's cheap as dirt these days.
Broadband is widely deployed.
I mean,
you even have broadband to phones now.
And it's more and more commonly a
requirement in sites because there's
such an emphasis on multimedia content.
We're seeing more and more often there's
like flash stuff being shoved in there
and movies and sounds and you name it.
So, you know, the little bit of HTML,
your applications are generating anymore.
As long as you're
generating it very quickly,
the actual bytes on the wire
just don't matter that much.
Also, server environments have a lot more
bandwidth than they ever have before.
Your backplanes and your server farms are
going to typically be gigabit Ethernet.
They also have a much faster connection
to the net at large or at least
you can obtain faster connections
for a lot cheaper than ever before.
And just basically the whole server
infrastructure has a lot more bandwidth
more bandwidth and power available to it.
So where's the clicker thingy?
There it is.
And now let's look at the user interface,
though.
Now what's interesting about
the HTML user interface is
that it really hasn't changed
at all in the last few years.
It's still kind of primitive.
We have CSS now,
which has allowed us to shuffle
some of the bits around for
defining the user interfaces.
You can push more of the sort
of interface architecture,
the construction of the
UI into these CSS files,
and then apply them across the site
so that your customers even can have
more control over the look and feel.
But by and large, it's still, you know,
TDs and TRs and forms and
inputs and the same stuff we've
been doing for a long time.
But what has changed?
What has changed is that the
baseline feature set of the sites
have become much more intense.
They're much more dynamic.
In particular,
there's more inferential content.
More often now,
you have to generate content
based on where the user's been
or what they may have done in the
last year or purchase histories.
You may have to be generating content
based on partnership agreements and
marketing agreements and buying records
of all the customers on the site.
And these are really the features
you start to need to have to
implement into your systems.
And not just commercial marketing
systems or point of sale systems,
but also in back-end
systems to stay competitive.
As we've seen with Spotlight on Mac OS X,
what does Spotlight do?
Well, it allows the user to stop thinking
about the individual items in
their environment and to start
thinking about just finding stuff,
just letting the system suggest
where things are and point
out the right directions.
You're also required to provide
more customization to your users.
Given that you may have a lot of
stuff that you want to customize,
you may want to make sure that you have a
lot of things that you want to customize.
You may want to make sure that you have a
we may have hundreds of thousands
of items that the user is
managing at any one time,
as opposed to dozens or hundreds.
Now, the user needs to have a lot more
control over the presentation,
And what all this means is
that you now have a requirement
to use less static content.
And there's also obviously the increased
integration with external resources.
Various different kinds of Web services
like Google's AdSense and the search
features and some of the product matching
features and forms and things like that,
they have really matured a lot.
Some of them are very impressive and
integrating with those is becoming more
and more critical to remain competitive.
Now, also at the same time,
while HTML hasn't advanced,
alternative interface
technologies have become huge.
It's just not just about HTML.
Flash, dynamic Flash production
is becoming more common.
Java applets, all kinds of things.
And one of the areas that's really,
really important or has grown hugely in
the last few years has been Web services.
And really,
this is one of those just overused
garbage words that you can throw out
and just think of it as an XML API.
It's a bunch of methods.
You call them with an XML call,
and it gives a bunch of XML back.
Now, XMLs, on the XML side,
one of the most popular ones is RSS,
which you see a lot of new services
being pushed out about that.
That's really just an
alternative user interface.
And then, of course,
the most popular alternative
user interface in the world.
is the iTunes Music Store,
which is really just an XML interface
on a WebObjects application with a very
nice rendering engine on the other side.
Likewise, on Tiger itself,
many of the dashboard widgets
are actually using calls back to
Web servers to spew out information.
So you have these beautiful
photorealistic renderings of
otherwise simple XML content.
Now, on the HTML front,
while HTML hasn't changed,
it's being used in very
new and different places.
You see, like, for example, in Xcode,
the documentation window
is an HTML viewer,
and it has integration with the servers
at Apple Developer Connection as well
as static content on your machine.
Plus, the user can command-double-click
a piece of code,
or, I'm sorry,
option-double-click a piece of code,
and go straight into the documentation.
So now you have source
code integrated with HTML.
You also have the WebKit,
and on Windows you have other
widgets that allow you to embed
HTML in any random application.
So now you suddenly have the need
to have very small fragments of
HTML that are sitting in the middle of
otherwise normal desktop applications.
This changes the way your back-end
applications need to deal with the data.
And of course,
app servers are generally now have
to talk with other app servers
to keep track of what's going on.
Sometimes it's not sufficient just
to do all the communications through
a database or through notifications
and then faulting in new data.
So the end result really here is
your application is going to be
generating content that's destined
for use in all kinds of contexts
outside of a big browser window.
And that really changes
the optimization picture.
In particular,
now WebObjects applications
more than ever before,
application servers
are all about the database.
And it's about active monitoring of
the environment and load balancing
adaptively in response to the changing
usage patterns of the application server
environment and of your customer base.
The increased use of inferential content
Sorry, I can't even read that.
The increased use of inferential
content means that you've got a
lot of content that's going to be
dynamic where it was static before.
Now, what's interesting about that is
even though it's inferential data
and it's user interface that needs
to be generated in response to users,
that doesn't mean it has to be real time.
So if you look at things like
Akamai and some of the caching
technologies that are out there,
and that's when we start
talking about really huge sites,
the ability to pre-render and
predict where users are going to go,
adapt to the popular pieces of your
site and render that stuff statically so
that when a user comes in and asks for
something that is dynamically generated
based on sales data or whatever,
it's actually coming from a static cache.
That's where you can really
achieve a lot of performance.
You can vastly reduce the
loads on your servers.
[Transcript missing]
Thank you very much, Bill,
for that introduction.
Good afternoon, everybody.
For those of you who didn't catch it,
my name is Ravi Mendis,
and I work with Max on
the iTunes Music Store.
Now,
for the first half of this presentation,
we thought we'd focus
on design optimization.
As Bill mentioned just now, typically,
you optimize an application
once it has been built.
That is, you identify those bits of your
application that is used the most,
and you optimize those bits.
It's the 90-10 principle that I'm sure
most of you are fairly familiar with.
However,
that does not mean we can't build
and design our application with
performance and scalability in mind.
And to that end,
we have three design goals
we'd like to focus on.
will be speaking today,
and the first of which is inspired
by a personal hero of mine,
the legendary Bruce Lee.
True refinement seeks simplicity.
Now his philosophy or mantra can
be applied or translates very well
into software engineering in that
sometimes to improve something
we need to make it simpler.
And for those of us who can't
afford the luxury of re-engineering,
it helps to keep it simple to begin with.
Design goal number one, keep it simple.
Reengineering is expensive,
and this is particularly true
of your database and model.
It becomes incredibly expensive,
if not prohibitively difficult,
to reengineer your data and
model once you have thousands
upon thousands of users,
and your database is gigabytes
upon gigabytes in size.
So,
you need to get it right from the start,
and we do that by
keeping the model simple.
Now, we're smart guys,
and we like to come up with, you know,
interesting solutions to problems,
so it takes a huge amount of
discipline and restraint to
not over-engineer anything.
As a rule of thumb,
it helps to not over-abstract your model.
Arguably, a concrete model is
superior to an abstract one.
And in general,
a deeper understanding of your business
or your problem domain will result in
a more concretely architected model.
And finally, minimize use of inheritance.
EOF inheritance adds a significant
amount of complexity to your project.
And in particular,
in applications that scale up,
like the iTunes Music Store,
you must bear in mind the performance
penalty that you might incur if
you do implement inheritance.
And while we're on that topic,
let's compare the three
inheritance methodologies.
What we're going to look at here is if
you were to perform a fetch of entities,
of EOs rather,
from an entity in a parent or root
entity in an inheritance tree.
So for single table inheritance,
this would simply require one fetch.
But in an inheritance tree modeled
using horizontal table inheritance,
say an inheritance tree consisting
of n concrete subclasses,
a fetch into the parent or root
entity will result in n fetches.
The equivalent fetch in using vertical
table inheritance will be n fetches.
In fact,
n joins over m tables if you have where
your inheritance tree is m levels deep.
So very clearly,
vertical inheritance tree is a fetch.
But in an inheritance tree modeled
using horizontal table inheritance,
say an inheritance tree consisting
of n concrete subclasses,
a fetch into the parent or root
entity will result in n fetches.
So the difference between a single
table inheritance and a horizontal table
inheritance is at a disadvantage here.
And perhaps that may be why
it has gone out of fashion and
out of favor in recent years.
So typically,
you'd be deciding to -- you'd be
choosing between single table inheritance
and horizontal table inheritance.
Now, you might also say that, well,
you know,
I rarely need to fetch the entities --
the EOs in a root or parent entity in a
horizontal table inheritance hierarchy.
And that just might be the case.
It all depends on your requirements.
However, if you do choose horizontal
table inheritance,
do be aware or be careful of what are
referred to as ambiguous relationships.
That is,
relationships that point to a parent
or root entity in an inheritance tree.
For example,
if we have a horizontal table
inheritance hierarchy consisting
of 20 concrete subclasses,
if you were to have a relationship
into that -- the parent or root entity,
in order to resolve that
relationship at runtime,
EOF will fire 20 fetches to the database.
And in a big application,
that can be a significant penalty.
So when in doubt,
use single table inheritance.
Let's discuss a couple more
features about inheritance,
a couple more pointers and caveats.
So the first one is try and use
flat inheritance hierarchies.
Avoid deep trees.
Ideally, keep them simple,
keep them one level deep.
Use abstract superclasses.
Don't use concrete superclasses
if you can't help it.
And actually, the second point is very,
very important.
Do not combine or mix and
match the methodologies.
One must remember that EOF is
an object relational tool.
And these three methodologies
are approximations to
OO in a relational model.
And although technically
possible to mix and match,
that is have a hybrid
hierarchy consisting of part
horizontal table inheritance.
And finally,
be economical with inheritance.
And by this I don't mean
avoid inheritance altogether.
By all means, use inheritance if it
helps to enrich your model.
However, just don't go overboard.
And case in point,
as Bill mentioned earlier,
the iTunes Music Store is by
far most definitely the flagship
WebObjects application at the minute.
The largest, certainly most visible,
and talked about.
Now, we have over 400 entities
defined in a dozen or so models.
However, Max and his team of the original
iTunes Music Store architects
made the incredibly bold,
if not quite radical, decision to keep
inheritance to a minimum.
We have just one inheritance
tree that is one level deep.
And this decision has
actually paid off hugely,
if not enormously,
now that the music store is scaling
to the dizzying heights that it is.
And with that,
I think we have design goal number two.
Exploit the database.
Now, these database servers have
been around for a long time,
two, three decades.
They're based on solid
mathematical foundation,
and they're incredibly good
and incredibly efficient
in doing what they do.
If you want to build a fast application,
as Bill mentioned earlier,
you want to really leverage the power of
your database to drive your application.
There are three features of
EOF that I'd like to look at today.
Um... And...
I should say that EOF,
although we love it for insulating
us from the intricacies of SQL,
at the same time it also obscures
us from the richness and the
power that the language provides.
And subqueries, for one,
Raw rows and prefetching can
be used to more fully exploit
SQL in our application.
So subqueries can be used
to implement aggregation.
They're excellent for that.
Raw rows are ideal for fast
search results and prefetching,
which can be used on
edit and inspect pages.
Let's take a look at
subqueries in more detail.
Given that there's not a
lot of documentation on
subqueries at the minute,
this slide is a quick how-to construct
an aggregate attribute as a subquery.
For those of you familiar with the
movies model that ships with WebObjects,
let's consider for a minute the
requirement to add the number
of movies to a studio list page.
Now typically this would
involve performing a count
on the movies relationship.
Now there are two disadvantages to this.
The first is that when you fetch
and display the list of studios,
that will perform not only the
fetch on the studios table,
but will also perform n
fetches on the movie tables
for the n studios being listed.
The second disadvantage is that in
order to perform the count in memory,
EOF has to fetch and store
those movies in memory.
So we can actually implement
this slightly more elegantly.
More efficiently as an aggregate
attribute exploiting a subquery.
So on the studio entity we implement
a new attribute called moviesCount.
And the SQL that you see up there
is actually the subquery that
we insert into the column field.
You then set the attribute to be derived,
and you make it read-only
and not locking.
And that's all there is to it.
And the advantage here is that
when you now display the studios,
you will only be performing
one select statement.
In fact,
it will be a select with a subquery,
and you won't have to fetch
the movies into memory as well.
So there are two advantages to this.
and a couple more advantages
and caveats of subqueries.
I should say that they're excellent
for implementing other sort of
aggregate functions as well,
like max, min, and average.
They're incredibly fast.
These database servers are very
good at executing these subqueries.
And thirdly,
they can be implemented as fairly
elegantly as EO attributes.
There isn't need to execute
raw SQL at the adapter level in
order to do things like this.
However,
do note that one of the caveats of using
subqueries is that on large data sets,
there can be a performance penalty.
And this happens if the table you're
subquerying is too big or the table
that you're subquerying from is too big.
In either or both of those circumstances,
you will get a significant
performance penalty.
So do use it with caution,
as with any technology,
it can also be abused.
And case study,
we use subqueries extensively
in the music store.
In fact,
it plays a critical role in the content
management system that we work on.
Next, let's take a look at raw rows.
Many of you, I'm sure,
are familiar with raw rows,
so we'll go through this really quickly.
The advantages are that
they're lightweight,
they're easy on memory because
you fetch them as dictionaries
instead of fully-fledged EOs.
And the second point is you
can generate optimal SQL as
in select or join statements.
However, one of the disadvantages,
of course,
is because ROROs are read-only,
you need to fault them in
order to convert them to an
EO before you can edit them.
And that requires a FETs to the database.
So when to use ROROs?
They're ideal,
excellent for fast search pages,
list pages, and finally,
to cache read-only non-referenced data.
Now, some applications,
front-end web applications,
tend to be mostly read-only.
And in which case, it would make sense,
sometimes,
to cache some of your non-referenced
data into your shared editing context,
a feature that we shall
talk about very shortly.
And an example of such
read-only non-referenced data,
you could consider the
iTunes Music Store.
The front-end is essentially
a read-only application.
So when an iTunes client views albums,
artists, and songs,
that would be an example of
read-only non-referenced data.
And with that,
we move on to design goal number three.
Now, this is--
Design goal number three is also
inspired by a personal hero of mine,
the aviator Howard Hughes.
It can be said that building applications
is a little bit like building airplanes,
that sometimes to make planes go faster,
or for that matter, go further,
they make them lighter.
Certainly they did that in
the days of Howard Hughes.
In the film The Aviator,
Howard Hughes breaks a speed record
by flying one of his own planes
with the fuel tank almost emptied.
He only had just enough fuel
to break the speed record.
Indeed, nowadays we don't have
to go to such extremes,
but the challenges of modern aviation
are no longer about speed or distance,
but about capacity,
about building larger planes
that can carry more people.
And equivalently, it could be said of
the iTunes Music Store,
no longer is performance so much
a challenge as is scalability.
And in order to build
Ultra-efficient,
highly scalable applications.
You make them lighter.
So design goal number three,
minimize your memory footprint and
optimize or minimize recession state.
And the logic behind this is the
less memory your session consumes,
the greater the number of sessions your
application will be able to service.
So try and implement as much
stateless pages as possible.
A rule of thumb, if a page does not
require authentication,
that is user login,
it can then be implemented
as a direct action.
So use direct actions
and stateless components.
Number two, share data across sessions.
Leverage your EOF shared editing context.
It's a relatively new feature of EOF,
and I hope many of you do use it.
Third, try not to add layer upon layer
of middleware to your application.
Apart from obscuring the
use of standard APIs,
it adds to the memory
footprint of an application.
And as I said before,
the more memory your
application consumes,
the fewer the number of
instances you'll be able to run,
and the fewer the number of
sessions you'll be able to service.
And fourthly and lastly,
partition your application functionality.
A fairly typical partitioning of
application functionality is front end,
perhaps read only,
and a back end admin tool.
And an example of that would be, again,
the iTunes Music Store.
We have a pseudo web service front end,
which is pretty much read only,
and we have a content
management tool as a back end.
Now these two applications are
just the tip of the iceberg.
They form a suite of applications,
in fact,
that make up the iTunes Music Store.
Let's take a look at the first
point in a little more detail.
Optimize your session state.
As I said,
we do this by really taking advantage
of direct actions and making as
much of your application stateless.
So use direct action
pages wherever possible,
and then fetch EOs into
local editing contexts.
Now, for example,
if we were to have a search page that
fetched EOs or search results into
your session's default editing context,
those EOs will stay in memory
until that session is discarded,
that is, until the user has logged out.
It makes more sense to
fetch those sort of results,
search results, into editing contexts.
But we also want to make sure that we
are not only collecting the EOs that are
local to the component or the action,
because as a result,
they will be discarded at the
end of the request response loop.
and third, implement stateless
WebObjects components.
Now these are singleton components
that service the entire application.
And they're very handy,
they can be used in stateless direct
action pages as well as WebObjects pages.
And finally,
and this is in fact very key,
is to minimize your session state.
Try not to scope your
variables within your session.
Only do that when absolutely necessary.
And this helps to keep the
session memory down to a minimum.
Let's look at EO Shared Editing Context.
Again, I'm sure many of you are
fairly familiar with this,
so very quickly, the advantages.
It's ideal for sharing
read-only data between sessions,
and emphasis being on read-only.
In fact,
Bill suggests that EO shared editing
context is a bit of a misnomer.
It should really be EO read-only
shared editing context.
But there you go.
It's also thread-safe.
And thirdly, in fact, most importantly,
it reduces database traffic.
The kind of reference data that
we mean that should be stored
in a shared editing context,
things like countries, currencies,
states, things like that.
Now, consider for a minute a page that
has a pop-up consisting of countries.
Now, every time that page is requested,
if countries were not shared
or cached as shared EOs,
the EOF will perform a select
statement onto the database.
In a large application like
the iTunes Music Store,
these frequent but small fetches could
in fact throttle the database connection.
So, shared editing contexts
serve a second purpose,
and that is to reduce database traffic.
And case in point,
the iTunes Music Store,
we have over 40 plus shared entities,
and we experience a significant
performance boost using shared EOs.
And finally, we come to the second
half of the presentation.
But before I introduce Max,
who's going to demonstrate and talk about
some advanced optimization techniques,
I'd just like to say a few points.
The key to successful optimization,
just like any other science,
is observation.
It is careful observation to monitor
the application youth edge is what can
help identify those bits of the system
that need to be tweaked and optimized.
And to that end,
there are a set of tools at your
disposal to help with this analysis.
And the first port of call,
as I'm sure most of you should
or probably are aware of,
is statistics.
It's a tool that allows you
to turn on your SQL logging.
And you do that by setting
your adapter debug enabled on.
The chances are that
20 to 30%, if not more,
of your optimization issues
will be database related,
in which case you will actually
identify them at this point.
After this, we need to turn to some
more sophisticated tools to
optimize our application.
And the first would be your
WoEvents page to profile your
application using WoEvents,
something Max is going
to show up very shortly,
and monitor your usage using WoEstats.
You can even take that a little
further and use web server log
analysis tools like Webalyzer
and Webtrends to monitor usage.
And with that, I think I should introduce
you to Max Muller.
He's Manager of Content Provisioning
at the iTunes Music Store.
Everybody, Max.
Excellent.
Thank you, Ravi.
As Ravi mentioned, my name is Max Muller.
I am engineering manager for
content provisioning and operations
at the iTunes Music Store.
I've been in the
WebObjects field for many,
many years and with the
Music Store since the inception.
So I've experienced all of the different
performance problems and tuning problems
that we've gone through as the load has
increased and the performance has become
very critical with the Music Store.
So what I thought I would do is
actually go through a number of
the knobs and screws that you can
tune for your entire deployment.
Oftentimes, we focus all of our energy on
basically getting the WOA to perform
exactly the way we want it to,
making sure it's not
doing extraneous fetches,
these types of issues.
But then when we actually go
to deploy the application,
we find that the performance is
suffering or the application is
not responding in the correct way.
So we find these kind of very
strange anomalies going on where
we have one application that's
taking down all the rest of the
applications and these type of issues.
So the first point at which
any request comes into your
site is through the web server.
So this is essentially the WOA adapter.
This is the piece of code that runs in
Apache or one of the other web servers.
And it is the Achilles heel
and the choke point for all
requests into your application.
So it's important to understand
exactly how to tune that.
exactly how to tune that before you
actually even get to your application.
So, in terms of the WoW adapter,
there's a number of different ways
in which it can be configured.
And the most important bit being
that the default configuration is
most definitely not what you want for
every single one of your applications.
It's probably not even what you
want for one of your applications.
So, within the parameters,
the first point to look at
are all the timeout settings.
Within one application setting,
you have what's called
the connect timeout,
the send timeout,
and the receive timeout.
So, breaking that down,
and also I thought that
I'd put up here what,
yeah, this is essentially a snippet
from exactly how we have
Music Store configured today for
one of our basically storefront.
It's a sessionless read-only
application that essentially
renders all of the album pages,
store pages, these type of pages.
So, the send timeout,
or the connect timeout, sorry,
is how long the adapter will wait
trying to connect your application.
If your app's down.
If it is completely busy
processing all the other requests
and its queue is completely full,
how long is it going to sit there and
basically wait on your application?
Setting this to something very high,
you'll start to get,
this is where you start to basically
get no instance available back.
Setting it to something very low means
that if your app is very busy and
just doesn't have time to respond back
to basically take in the request,
then you're going to start
snapping it and it's going to
start getting marked as dead.
So, playing with this app,
playing with this setting,
is important in knowing how much
time basically a buffer for that.
The second one is the send timeout.
This one's not nearly as important.
It's how long is it going to
basically wait to send the
request into your application.
This is more important if you're
dealing with large uploads of files,
these type of things,
because that's how long
it's going to wait before it
basically snaps the connection.
The third one is the receive timeout.
This is by far the most
important of the three timeouts.
This is how long the adapter is
going to wait for the response.
So, setting this to a very high value
means that if your application wedges,
then essentially it's not going to
be getting the response back and the
adapter is going to wait there forever.
The most important part
about that is that as long as
it's opening the connection,
your web server is
holding that request open.
OS X,
you can handle about 800 requests before
the whole box wedges up and you have to
go in and start killing Apache processes.
So, having a very high
timeout here means that,
if something goes wrong in your
environment where your apps all of
a sudden stop responding quickly,
that's essentially your window
of time for how long before
your web server backs up.
So, for the store,
we have it connected 5, 20, and 30.
It means we're going to wait 30
seconds for the page to render,
after which point we're going to snap it.
So, the second bit is the retries.
This is if you don't get a
response back from an app,
how many times should you basically,
should you take the request, and say,
"Well, let me go try this application.
Let me go try this one." So,
within the store, it's fine,
it's read-only.
But, configuring this for a finance
application where somebody clicks "Buy
Song" and all of a sudden it can't
get a response back from this finance,
so it says, "Hmm,
I'll go ahead and hand it off to this
one." And this one would mean that
the user might all of a sudden say,
"Well, I only clicked the Buy Song once
and all of a sudden I got
charged three times." So,
you have to be careful with that
one because that's the number
of times it's going to retry.
and so the third one is the dead timeout.
That's the one on the
far right hand corner.
So when you pull this page up,
the dead timeout is
actually the countdown.
And what happens is that
if the application doesn't
respond or can't connect to it,
the app gets marked as dead.
When an app is dead,
then no other requests are routed to it.
So that is the dead timeout
over here is 20 seconds.
So that means if for whatever
reason your box goes offline,
that you're out,
that you're out of timeout.
So that means that the adapter
is going to route a request to
that guy once every 20 seconds,
which means that that request is
for sure going to get rejected
and handed off to another guy.
Or if you have a finance application
and you've just lost a box,
that means that the user is going
to basically get a nice little,
sorry,
music store is not available right now,
come back again later.
One out of every 20,
once every 20 seconds,
one user out there is going to be getting
that response for every application
that's dead and completely offline.
So having a very high dead timeout,
so this is also very important
when you bounce applications.
Because if it takes, you know,
three minutes for your app to
come up and you bounce an app,
then that means that, you know,
you're going to basically be
routing over six requests to it,
no, sorry, nine requests to it,
before it's actually even
able to process requests.
So the temptation here might be to
basically bump that up very high.
But then you start to get this nice
swimming effect where if you have
a three minute dead timeout and all
of a sudden you get hit with a large
load and the apps just start to are
just taking a while to process it,
then everything gets marked as dead.
[Transcript missing]
So now after the adapter,
before we've even gotten to
start processing the request,
so what are some of the tools that we
can basically tune at the WOA level?
So the first is the listen queue size.
Now the listen queue is
essentially the thread,
the server socket thread that sits
there and listens for requests.
This is the one that if it's full,
then the connect timeout from the
adapter is basically not able to get in.
This is also essentially the queue,
the complete queue size that your
application will hold to basically
hand off to worker threads to process.
Now the default is 128.
So...
What we noticed is that this
is incredibly high value.
And it's interesting because
what we would find is that we
would get hit with some slowdown
would happen within the system.
Either the credit card
processing would have a blip,
or the web servers would
freak out for a moment,
or we'd get a database oopsie,
or something along those
lines would happen.
But we noticed that it would
take 15 to 20 minutes before
all of the apps would come down.
In terms of, you know,
the CPU would be up to the roof,
and they'd be sitting there processing,
doing a whole lot of stuff,
and the web servers would
still be freaking out.
And we couldn't figure out what this
was because we'd see this one blip
that we could definitely identify,
and then we'd see like 15 to
20 minutes of pain afterwards.
And, you know,
so we're basically going through
all the different settings.
We're like, oh, what's going on here?
And just nothing but broken
pipes throughout the logs.
So what we actually found was that,
you know, we hadn't basically adjusted
the listen queue size.
So what, we're under quite a bit of load.
All of a sudden we get a blip,
which means that your
apps basically stop for,
you know, 5,
10 seconds where they're waiting
on the database to come back,
waiting for a lock or something like
this that we hadn't anticipated.
Meanwhile,
the adapters are sitting there, you know,
continuing to feed your WOAs,
and the listen queues
are basically queuing up.
So then what happens?
Then basically the lock comes back,
your app starts processing again,
but it's got 128 requests to process.
Not to mention the adapter is all
ready to basically give you more.
And those 128,
if the blip was long enough,
and remember the receive
timeout was set to 30 seconds?
So if the blip lasted 30 seconds,
you've got 128 requests there
that the adapter has long since
severed the connection on.
Your WOA is going to sit there and
just basically sit there and diligently
chew through every single one,
finish rendering the page,
get it all ready to go,
then go to write it out and be like, oh,
broken pipe.
Well,
let me grab the next one off the queue,
work through the whole thing, then oh,
broken pipe again.
So the queue size is pretty important
because this is kind of how,
this is how many you
should basically have,
how many requests you can handle
in flight and still be within
that receive timeout window.
So 128, you're going to have to
have one hefty WOA there.
And you have some really fast responses
to be able to get 128 of those guys out.
All right, so next step.
So after the queue,
you then get handed off
to the worker thread.
So the worker thread,
these are the actual ones that go
through the dispatch request and actually
generate something and then hand it off.
So the thread size is interesting in how
you basically build your application.
You know,
typically we won't have more than
a worker thread size of actually
four within the music store.
And that's mainly because
even for our multi-task,
we're going to have a lot of requests.
And for our multi-threaded ones,
we don't want to get too many of
these guys going at the same time.
You know, we're all on XSERVs.
We've got two processors.
And for our fully threaded ones,
they're CPU bound.
So you get 256 of these guys
going on an XSERV and basically
all the threads are sitting there
waiting for processing time.
And so it actually
brings down your whole,
you know, your overall, you know,
your overall performance level.
So you got to be careful with the
worker thread size because the
worker thread size and your CPUs,
you know, the current processing time,
the current processing
that you have available,
that's where you want to
make your trade off there.
And.
But even on a single-threaded app,
the temptation is always basically to
just have like one worker thread there.
But you typically want to
have like two or three,
just because it does take a long
time sometimes for large requests
to basically stream back out.
So even after you've finished
in the dispatch request,
dispatch request, by the way,
is fully threaded.
FYI, even if you have a Woken current
request handling set to false,
dispatch request fully threaded.
So, anyway,
so those are some of the knobs that
you can basically tune even before
you start processing your requests.
One word of caution I would point out,
we did have cases where we were basically
looking for long-running requests that
had basically screwed something up.
And so the first implementation was
basically just to nuke the thread.
But FYI,
that'll leave EOF in a very nasty state.
Best just to basically system exit if you
want to basically go something like that.
So there's your WOA.
That's how you can basically
tune your WOA server.
So the last bit that I'd
mention is essentially how do
you then tune your deployment.
So you now have your adapter
set configured correctly.
You know basically how you
want your WOA to behave.
So now you're kind of looking at your
whole deployment architecture because
you're now basically ready to deploy.
So one bit that I'd mention is you
might want to separate your web
servers because one of the bits that,
you know, within the music store we never
want to stop taking orders,
ever.
So, but at the same time, you know,
we have other very high performance
things like search and like the store
pages and if you have all of your web
servers essentially sharing one comp
file and handling the HTTPS and the HTTP,
then
[Transcript missing]
the latency of basically going and
getting those things is probably
slowing down the request response loop.
Also being able to kind of look
at the total properties that
you have within the system.
You know, we've got 15, 20 frameworks.
They all have their own properties files.
We have deployment properties.
We have all these kind
of mixture of properties.
And so a lot of the times, you know,
when you're looking at to debug a
problem going on in the environment,
you're like,
what is this thing configured with?
So being able to kind of
look at and reload and touch
properties has been very helpful.
And again, I mentioned having kind of
the independent web servers.
So we had to move to kind of
having independent web servers
for our monitoring tools as
well as kind of the front end.
Because oftentimes when you
want the information the most
is when things are going wrong.
And when your web servers are down,
then you can't monitor as well.
So kind of having a
different set of web servers,
that you basically are talking
into and looking into your
applications versus the... the
application versus the web servers
that are serving the applications,
we found that to be
very beneficial as well.
And so I apologize.
Demo gods were not with me.
But my machine is actually kernel
panicking when I connect in to this.
So I did have a small demo set up
to basically show kind of being
able to do property turnaround,
being able to dump stack when
you... for long-running requests.
But... So I apologize for that.
But that is actually the session.
And now... more information.
At this point,
I think we are opening up to questions.
So, we got a WebObjects
feedback session after this.